---
title: Security Overview
metaTitle: Security Overview and Privacy Protection
metaDescription: At Chalk, protecting customer data is core to our mission. We integrate security best practices into every aspect of our operations and product development.
description: How Chalk protects your data.
---

import { ServiceDiagramSwitcher, NetworkArchitectureDiagram } from "@/components/ArchitectureDiagram"

---

## About Chalk

Chalk enables innovative machine learning teams to focus on building
the unique products and models that make their business stand
out. Behind the scenes Chalk seamlessly handles data infrastructure
with a best-in-class developer experience.

Chalk is both a framework and a platform — developers can write code
using familiar Python packages, and deploy that code to Chalk’s
platform. Chalk infrastructure executes-customer defined pipelines to
compute
“[feature](<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Feature_(machine_learning)>)”
data for machine learning applications. Chalk then serves this data
back to customer applications for online inference and to customer
data teams for training set generation.

Chalk was built to help answer the world’s hardest questions. By
democratizing access to machine learning, we hope to do just that.

Chalk was founded and is based in San Francisco, with our primary office
in the Mission District.

---

## Culture of Security

At Chalk, protecting customer data is core to our mission. It goes
without saying — a culture of security is required to earn the trust
of organizations that are solving important problems. Consequently, we
integrate security best practices into every aspect of our operations
and product development and continuously work to harden our security.

### Security Program

Chalk adheres to a program that protects confidentiality, integrity,
and availability of data. We have developed information security
policies, updated at a minimum on an annual basis, to enforce best
practices across access control, risk management, change management,
incident response, and other critical areas.
We align our policies with standard industry frameworks and
our controls are certified via a SOC-2 Type 2 and ISO27001 assessment.
You can request a copy of our certified reports by contacting
[security@chalk.ai](mailto:security@chalk.ai).

### Our People

Chalk’s security starts with the people who work here. We maintain
strict standards for hiring and all employees undergo background
checks prior to employment. During onboarding, we require employees to
sign a Code of Conduct and an Acceptable Use Policy. Periodically, we
evaluate employee performance in order to ensure alignment with our
objectives. Employees who fail to comply with policies are subject to
disciplinary procedures up to and including termination.

---

## Protecting Customer Data

### Endpoint security

Chalk takes the protection of customer data seriously. We recognize
that failing to protect production customer data is an existential threat to our
business. To that end, Chalk strictly forbids storing customer data on
company workstations, laptops, or removable media. Customer data is
stored exclusively in production data environments.

In addition, Chalk maintains strict controls for production
systems. Chalk employees are not permitted to access Chalk production
systems via mobile devices. All access to production systems is gated via IAM
grants which require justification. Furthermore, access is only
permitted on computers that are verified to comply with our endpoint
standards. No customer data may be transferred to employee
workstations.

### Network security and server hardening

Customer data is logically segregated and encrypted at rest and in
transit. We use a multi-tenant database for metadata and
configuration, and feature engineering data is stored in isolated
single-tenant stores.

Chalk infrastructure is hosted in AWS and GCP and relies on their
respective physical and environmental security controls. Their
security is described in detail in the
[AWS](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/whitepapers/latest/introduction-aws-security/introduction-aws-security.pdf)
and [GCP](https://cloud.google.com/security/infrastructure) security
documentation.

Our production VPC networks are segregated from development and
staging networks, and utilize strict firewall controls to prevent any
unauthorized access.

<NetworkArchitectureDiagram />

We use separate AWS accounts and GCP projects for segregated
environments, and strictly control IAM access to environments using
the [principle of least privilege](https://www.google.com/search?q=principle+of+least+privilege&oq=principle+of+least+p&aqs=chrome.0.0i512j69i57j0i512l8.1378j0j7&sourceid=chrome&ie=UTF-8).

### Encryption

At Chalk, we use encryption mechanisms to protect customer data. Chalk
makes use of GCP and AWS services to manage encryption of data at rest
and in transit. Data at rest is encrypted using AES 256-bit
encryption. Data in transit is protected using TLSv1.2 or higher, and
we require modern cipher suites for all connections.

### Access Control

Chalk uses the IAM capabilities of GCP and AWS to manage users who
have access to Chalk's production environments. We use auditing
tools to verify that the principle of least privilege is followed, and we
use granular service accounts to enforce separation of duties. Access
privileges are reviewed at least quarterly.

<ServiceDiagramSwitcher />

### Data retention and disposal

Chalk maintains explicit policies for data retention and deletion. We retain customer data for as long as is needed to satisfy contractual obligations with our customers, or in accordance with regulatory frameworks. We maintain corporate data for periods that are defined by relevant business stakeholders in accordance with business objectives.

Chalk performs daily automated backups of systems that hold customer data.

---

## Monitoring and Risk Management

### System monitoring, logging, and alerting

Chalk invests heavily in extensive monitoring, observability, and
alerting for our production environments. We make use of several
tools, including Datadog's [SIEM
solution](https://www.datadoghq.com/product/security-platform/cloud-siem/).

We rely on AWS and GCP’s audit logging capabilities to keep a record of all production access grants, which includes access that would allow an employee to view customer data. Administrative activity in AWS and GCP is logged and retained immutably.

Alerts are configured for important production systems and
functionality. Critical alerts are actioned immediately, with pages
going out to our 24x7x365 on-call rotation.

### Third-party review & management

Chalk evaluates third-party sub-processors and vendors according to a risk-based framework. We assess their privacy, security, and confidentiality processes in order to confirm that they will not impact our responsibility to protect customer data and provide a highly-available service.

Vendors are reviewed on a yearly cadence. We evaluate factors like the
sensitivity of data stored on the service, criticality of our
dependence on the service, and the reputation of the service. A
current list of our sub-processors is available
[here](https://chalk.ai/legal/subprocessors).

---

## Change Management

Chalk utilizes an agile methodology for software development, and
performs extensive code reviews and testing before each release.

We adhere to industry best practices, which include mandatory PR
approvals, [automated code review](https://semgrep.dev/), a suite of
integration and unit tests, and preview deployments to non-production
environments for manual QA.

Developers are trained to adhere to secure coding guidelines, and are
aware of the OWASP Top 10 issues. Security-sensitive code is always
reviewed by domain experts.

---

## Incident Management and Business Continuity

### Responding to security incidents

Chalk follows a documented Incident Response Plan which is aligned
with the [SANS Incident Handlers
Handbook](https://www.sans.org/white-papers/33901/).

Our plan includes steps for initiating the response plan, escalation
to relevant leadership stakeholders, triage, investigation, analysis,
mitigation, restoration, and post-mortem. Our engineering team works
to monitor potential security issues pro-actively, and takes all
reports of security-related issues very seriously.

Our 24x7x365 on-call rotation is available for customers to report
security incidents. Reports should be made to
[security@chalk.ai](mailto:security@chalk.ai), or through other
contracted support channels.

Chalk will notify impacted customers of any security issues in a
timely fashion.

### Disaster recovery and business continuity

Chalk has developed a Business Continuity and Disaster Recovery
Plan. We perform an annual review and trial run of the plan, and work
to ensure that we are able to resume business operations from backup
locations, establish communication among core team members, and
perform backup restorations successfully.

---

## Awareness Training

Chalk maintains a Security Awareness program as part of our onboarding
and annual review cadence. All employees are required to participate
in order to ensure that they are aware of and understand the policies
and procedures that they are required to abide by.

Developers are educated on OWASP Top 10 issues, and other secure
coding concepts.

---

## Conclusion

Chalk’s goal is to make it as easy as possible to deploy
production-grade machine learning pipelines. We understand that we
must earn and keep the trust of our customers in order to succeed in
our mission. As such, we have implemented policies and procedures
which reflect today’s best practices and we are committed to evolving
our standards to always reflect updated security best practices.

If you have any questions, please reach out to us at
[security@chalk.ai](mailto:security@chalk.ai), or by contacting your
Chalk relationship manager.
